Add Managed Jenkins Infrastructure for TVM RFC (#49)
apache/tvm-rfcs: rfcs/0049-managed-jenkins-infrastructure-for-tvm.md

8. When the build is completed, Jenkins notifies GitHub of the result, and the PR or `main` branch is updated.

### Autoscaler

Jenkins executor nodes can be classified into two groups:

1. **Static nodes** are long-lived instances managed by Terraform. The Jenkins master is configured to connect to static nodes at startup and expects them to continue to stay alive for the life of the Jenkins master process.
2. **Autoscaled nodes** are cloud instances that are created by the Jenkins master in response to PR workload. As the build queue grows longer, Jenkins can choose to create additional executors to alleviate developer wait time. Autoscaled nodes persist for an adjustable period of time after they become idle.

At launch time, we intend to use only static nodes. However, autoscaled nodes have been tested internally and we will begin to use those sometime in Q1 2022. Autoscaled nodes present a debugging challenge, as flaky tests or non-repeatable errors will need to be diagnosed before the autoscaled node is decommissioned automatically by the Jenkins master.

### Infrastructure-as-Code Repository

> The production TVM CI instance will be managed using an open source Infrastructure-as-Code repository living in GitLab. GitLab is preferable for DevOps workflows due to a slightly nicer pipelines system, particularly one which allows for manual intervention if needed. All configuration except credentials will be stored in this repository. TVM Committers, plus additional delegates of those committers responsible for running the TVM Jenkins infrastructure, will be granted write access to this repository. Any changes to this repository will require review from those individuals with write access who are actively involved in the day-to-day operations of TVM CI.

Author: oops, this was a decision we walked back after some consideration (e.g. better to stick with the same platform rather than have two). i missed this mention in my editing; fixed.

2. Each build pair is considered one-by-one. The Jenkins pipeline XML is examined to determine the build result and any failing stages in TVM CI. A report is produced detailing differences between the outcome of all `sh` statements in the `Jenkinsfile`.
3. The differing entries in the report are analyzed manually and categorized into one of the above categories. Those reports which fall into a blocking launch category must be justified to avoid blocking launch (e.g. transient config change, development of staging instance, etc).

### Launch Process

TVM CI is less heavily used over weekends, so the launch process will take place on a weekend. When the launch commences, Jenkins will be configured to stop scanning PRs and we will wait for builds to complete. Once completed, the following steps will take place:

1. The production cluster will be created using the IaC pipeline

> 2. [`ci.tlcpack.ai`](http://ci.tlcpack.ai) will be updated to point to the new Jenkins master

Author: we actually have been doing this for a month or two, so i don't think the risk is high. we're now to the point where we are ready to make that flip. i do think there is some risk of CI breakage, but in analyzing the differences in PR outcome between the two instances, it's common that a PR will arrive at a different outcome today just due to flaky TVM tests. 

so, i do want to minimize the risk and believe we've taken reasonable steps to do this, but at the same time i want to move forward here and unblock other CI-related improvements, and given the state of CI i'm not sure it makes sense to be so careful that we are proving exact equality between the two. because we have been in fact using executors managed under the new Infrastructure-as-Code system, the change we are ready to make is essentially upgrading the Jenkins master. I think the important things to check there are mainly that we aren't leaving any tests out suddenly, that we are seeing equivalences in test runs, and that the Jenkinsfile parses ok under the new master.

> 2. [`ci.tlcpack.ai`](http://ci.tlcpack.ai) will be updated to point to the new Jenkins master

Reviewer: To clarify, I'm not expecting to check equality, most of us haven't seen this other system though. The safest practice would be spinning up the new system, provide evidence in a non-blocking hook that it goes green when we expect it to, and then decommission the previous hook.

Given we can switch the DNS back in case of failure, we can take the moderately riskier approach and rollback that way if the system doesn't quite perform as expected though.

3. We will smoke test several PRs to ensure the CI has basic functionality

We will not initially enable autoscaling. After a few weeks of successful operation, we will begin adding autoscaler nodes to the fleet.

## Ownership

> We propose that the Infrastructure-as-Code repository for this system be open-sourced but that the maintenance be delegated to a set of volunteers in the community. IaC operations will be launched in practice from GitHub Actions inside a new e.g. `tlcpack/ci-*` repositories. Cloud credentials will be provided to the IaC repository (stored privately, accessible to those community volunteers involved with CI operations) to enable maintenance access to the fleet of nodes.

Reviewer: Part of the problem with current CI is that even as a TVM committer I can't make meaningful changes to the infrastructure. The infrastructure in itself is a part of the TVM project, I'd suggest we encourage people to contribute infrastructure-as-code similar to other contributions, by using the committer system, rather than an alternative one.

Author: i agree with this. i think there are a few more obstacles before we can do this and i'd like to solve them in parallel without blocking efforts to improve CI:
- there isn't a path defined right now for folks who contribute only to TVM CI infrastructure to become committers
- nothing is codified right now so we can't use the traditional path
- there are folks who feel comfortable reviewing both Infra-as-Code and TVM, but my perception is that the number is small

what we're proposing is to handle this separately for now, however still grant TVM committers write access to the IaC repo (so the system is essentially still the committer system, just with extra folks who can write/deploy). this will also give us a good idea as to the GH permissions needed for such a repo, so that we can then consider unifying the two systems with a proper proposal later on.

Reviewer 2: there's also some prior art of CI code living outside the main repo (see https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra, https://github.com/pytorch/builder), afaik for similar reasons (easier to commit to and iterate on)

Reviewer: To clarify, I don't have any issue with the actual code being in a separate respository with different checks and such, that's totally normal in a lot of projects. The point of concern is taking the CI infrastructure, which every commit into TVM depends on, outside of the Apache TVM project. Taking your examples of `kubernetes/test-infra` and `pytorch/builder`, they all exist within the project itself, so the Kubernetes CI is under the `kubernetes` namespace and governed under those rules.

> * there isn't a path defined right now for folks who contribute only to TVM CI infrastructure to become committers
> * nothing is codified right now so we can't use the traditional path
> * there are folks who feel comfortable reviewing both Infra-as-Code and TVM, but my perception is that the number is small

I'm not sure this is true, I believe that the TVM community has a reasonable number of active committers comfortable with reviewing both, it's historically been difficult for them to contribute and continuing to manage it outside of the project seems to continue that practice. The path to becoming a committer does not seem to require comprehensive of knowledge across TVM, as the code owners file demonstrates certain committers have a large preference to a single area. I would support the PMC in guiding those who are interested in solely contributing to CI to becoming comitters as much as those who would contribute to other areas, such as documentation.

1. **Maintenance of dedicated executor fleet**. TVM's build is sensitive to the type of hardware used to execute the CI. Using GitHub Actions only alleviates us of the burden of running the Jenkins master. We would still need to run our own fleet of executors with the GitHub agent.
2. **Write access to CI configuration**. GitHub Actions is configured from within the `tvm` repository. While there are many benefits to this, operationally write access to the `tvm` repository is a slow process that is currently granted based on historical contribution to TVM. This process isn't particularly impedance-matched to the needs of a DevOps team, where access checks are routine but low-overhead and the group with write permissions should be controlled but easy to change. And, it's likely that many of the maintenance tasks involved with running TVM executors require the involvement of the current group of TVM Committers—indeed, no TVM committer is on the OctoML Infrastructure team today. This is not to say that any of these things could be changed, but when this project was started, it was considered to be challenging to accommodate these requirements in the TVM committer system.

> 3. **Private TVM CI instances**. While TVM CI will always remain open and public, there are multiple companies which both contribute to TVM and desire to run their own CI instance internally. Sticking to an open-source CI system avoids any vendor-specific pitfalls (e.g. anyone *could* run Jenkins internally and reference our configuration).

Reviewer 2: > addressing the comment from @leandron, I'll also be doing work in the coming weeks to open-source the CI components of the tvm-ci, packer, and terraform repositories, at which point it should be fairly easy for others to make contributions to the CI/contribute machines

In addition to these it'd be nice if we had a single guide on how to deploy everything (from the level of I have a head node and some static machines with a freshly provisioned Ubuntu or something), both for ourselves in the future and to enable this as more than just a possibility

Reviewer 3: That's a great idea--I'll definitely look into doing this in the coming weeks.

> 3. **Private TVM CI instances**. While TVM CI will always remain open and public, there are multiple companies which both contribute to TVM and desire to run their own CI instance internally. Sticking to an open-source CI system avoids any vendor-specific pitfalls (e.g. anyone *could* run Jenkins internally and reference our configuration).

Reviewer: Can this also provide ways of companies connecting CI resources using the template, such as running a set of static nodes or an autoscaling group from a template that the main Jenkins can connect to?

Author: yeah we should pursue this, but after this RFC lands. that's sort of alluded to by Future Questions number 2, but I agree this is slightly different.

8. When the build is completed, Jenkins notifies GitHub of the result, and the PR or `main` branch is updated.

### Autoscaler

Jenkins executor nodes can be classified into two groups:

1. **Static nodes** are long-lived instances managed by Terraform. The Jenkins master is configured to connect to static nodes at startup and expects them to continue to stay alive for the life of the Jenkins master process.
2. **Autoscaled nodes** are cloud instances that are created by the Jenkins master in response to PR workload. As the build queue grows longer, Jenkins can choose to create additional executors to alleviate developer wait time. Autoscaled nodes persist for an adjustable period of time after they become idle.

At launch time, we intend to use only static nodes. However, autoscaled nodes have been tested internally and we will begin to use those sometime in Q1 2022. Autoscaled nodes present a debugging challenge, as flaky tests or non-repeatable errors will need to be diagnosed before the autoscaled node is decommissioned automatically by the Jenkins master.

### Infrastructure-as-Code Repository

> The production TVM CI instance will be managed using an open source Infrastructure-as-Code repository living in GitHub. All configuration except credentials will be stored in this repository. TVM Committers, plus additional delegates of those committers responsible for running the TVM Jenkins infrastructure, will be granted write access to this repository. Any changes to this repository will require review from those individuals with write access who are actively involved in the day-to-day operations of TVM CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The production TVM CI instance will be managed using an open source Infrastructure-as-Code repository living in GitHub. All configuration except credentials will be stored in this repository. TVM Committers will be granted write access to this repository. Any changes to this repository will require review from those individuals with write access who are actively involved in the day-to-day operations of TVM CI.
```

Author: oops, fixed.

3. The differing entries in the report are analyzed manually and categorized into one of the above categories. Those reports which fall into a blocking launch category must be justified to avoid blocking launch (e.g. transient config change, development of staging instance, etc).

### Launch Process

TVM CI is less heavily used over weekends, so the launch process will take place on a weekend. When the launch commences, Jenkins will be configured to stop scanning PRs and we will wait for builds to complete. Once completed, the following steps will take place:

1. The production cluster will be created using the IaC pipeline
2. [`ci.tlcpack.ai`](http://ci.tlcpack.ai) will be updated to point to the new Jenkins master
3. We will smoke test several PRs to ensure the CI has basic functionality

We will not initially enable autoscaling. After a few weeks of successful operation, we will begin adding autoscaler nodes to the fleet.

## Ownership

> We propose that the Infrastructure-as-Code repository for this system be open-sourced and that maintenance of the repository be handled by TVM committers. Once the system is operational, IaC operations will be launched from GitHub Actions inside new e.g. `tlcpack/tvm-ci-*` repositories. We will create the following repositories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose that the Infrastructure-as-Code repository for this system be open-sourced and that maintenance of the repositories, as part of the Apache TVM project, be under the same project governance and PMC; IaC will therefore be managed by TVM committers. Once the system is operational, IaC operations will be launched from GitHub Actions inside new e.g. `tlcpack/tvm-ci-*` repositories. We will create the following repositories:
```

Author: made changes roughly to this effect

## Alternatives

### GitHub Actions

We considered using GitHub Actions to drive the TVM CI instead of Jenkins. While GitHub Actions has several attractive properties (for two, a modern configuration language and management of the "Jenkins master" equivalent), there are a couple of compelling reasons to build our own infrastructure including the Jenkins master:

1. **Maintenance of dedicated executor fleet**. TVM's build is sensitive to the type of hardware used to execute the CI. Using GitHub Actions only alleviates us of the burden of running the Jenkins master. We would still need to run our own fleet of executors with the GitHub agent.

> 2. **Write access to CI configuration**. GitHub Actions is configured from within the `tvm` repository. While there are many benefits to this, operationally write access to the `tvm` repository is a slow process that is currently granted based on historical contribution to TVM. This process isn't particularly impedance-matched to the needs of a DevOps team, where access checks are routine but low-overhead and the group with write permissions should be controlled but easy to change. And, it's likely that many of the maintenance tasks involved with running TVM executors require the involvement of the current group of TVM Committers—indeed, no TVM committer is on the OctoML Infrastructure team today. This is not to say that any of these things could be changed, but when this project was started, it was considered to be challenging to accommodate these requirements in the TVM committer system.

Reviewer: This needs rephrasing with the context around choosing `tlcpack` and using TVM Committers?

Author: i removed the last sentence, but i'd prefer to leave the rest in here actually. i'm very much okay with proceeding using the existing committer promotion strategy--i don't believe we should make a process exception over a perceived fear that the process won't work. however, i think it is pretty plain that a multi-week PMC vote is an extremely heavyweight way to add folks to an oncall rotation. i don't consider this problem perfectly solved in the new system, so i don't think it's worth removing the critique that GH actions locks us into that problem. i would like to revisit this problem in context of real experience operating the IaC repo and motivate any process changes off of that rather than off of a gut feeling. this does mean we're proceeding with a degraded oncall support, but i'm okay with that given it's a CI and the goal is to build a community-driven process.
